---
layout: post
title: 'In Linux, how do I create or Generate random File or Data or String?[SOLVED]'
date: '2023-01-18'
categories: linux
---
The process of creating a random file can be done in a number of ways: 
I’m going to create a 10M file using all commands to test this.

It can be done using the following 6 methods.

fallocate: fallocate is used to preallocate or deallocate space to a file.
truncate: truncate is used to shrink or extend the size of a file to the specified size.
dd: Copy a file, converting and formatting according to the operands.
head: head is used to print the first part of files.
xfs_mkfile: xfs_mkfile command allow us to create a specific size of a file in Linux.
perl: Perl is a programming language specially designed for text editing.

## Use dd
    
create a 100M file filled with all 0’s.
        $ dd if=/dev/zero of=100M_filled_with_zeros bs=100M count=1
create a 100M file filled with random data.
        $ dd if=/dev/urandom of=100M_filled_with_random_data bs=1M count=100

## Use head

create a 100M file filled with all 0’s.
        $ head -c 100M /dev/zero > 100M_filled_with_zeros
create a 100M file filled with random data.
        $ head -c 100M /dev/urandom > 100M_filled_with_random_data 

## Use openssl

openssl rand -out $testfile -base64 792917038; truncate -s-1 $testfile
openssl rand -out myfile "$size"
If you need base64:
openssl rand -base64 -out myfile "$size"

## Use jot

jot -r -c $FILESIZE > $FILE
truncate --size 1G foo
shred --iterations 1 foo
## xfs_mkfile 

xfs_mkfile 10M daygeek5.txt


## For Strings

2. Using the base64 Command
$ base64 /dev/urandom | head –c 10
pIS3VBfRhf

$ base64 /dev/urandom | head –c 10 > random_file.txt
$ cat random_file.txt
/8ZtS5IfK+

3. Using the tr Command

$ tr –dc [:graph:] < /dev/urandom | head –c 10
m1#Vs\:ABp

$ tr –dc [:alnum:] < /dev/urandom | head –c 10
miB150lFw2

$ tr –dc [:graph:] < /dev/urandom | head –c 10 > random_file.txt
$ cat random_file.txt
TKt4r$#Z7r

4. ### Using the strings Command
$ strings -s "" /dev/urandom | head -c 10
BB2\!C5./8
$ strings -s "" /dev/urandom | head -c 10 > random_file.txt
$ cat random_file.txt
7)XM/F%F;^
5. Using a Dictionary
$ shuf -n 5 /usr/share/dict/words | tr '\n' ' ' > random_file.txt
$ cat random_file.txt


